title: OSA2013 - pyarbus: a Python library for eye tracking data analysis
slug: OSA2013
author: Paul Ivanov
layout: post
date: 2013-10-02
category: news

Greetings OSA 2013 Fall Vision Meeting attendees.

Skip the abstract and go straight to the ["Live"
poster](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/urls/raw.github.com/ivanov/pyarbus/master/docs/examples/simple%20example.ipynb)

# Poster #19 Abstract (Paul Ivanov, UC Berkeley)

pyarbus is a library of tools for the analysis and visualization of time-series
data from eyetracking experiments. pyarbus aims to be:

- a Rosetta stone for different eyetracker data formats: one objective for
  pyarbus is to create a set of abstractions that holds the data, regardless of
  its original format, and to provide a unified interface to the data across
  different manufacturers. File formats from SR Research (EyeLink) and <del>SMI
  (iViewX and RED) are</del> is currently supported, or the user can create new
  data containers directly by passing in arrays.

- temporally aware: data containers in pyarbus can be indexed with time points
  or time slices.  Thus, indexing two different traces, perhaps collected at
  different rates, can be done in a unified manner, without having to remember
  to look up and verify what the appropriate sampling rate is, or having to
  hardcode assumptions into one's code. 

- collaboration-oriented: pyarbus integrates well with the IPython Notebook
  (http://ipython.org/notebook.html), a web-based interactive computational
  environment where you can combine code execution, text, mathematics, plots and
  rich media into a single document. The lead developer of pyarbus is also a
  core developer of IPython, and new interactive widgets for IPython will be
  developed with pyarbus as a testbed.

- extensible: pyarbus is based on the nitime project (http://nipy.org/nitime/),
  which contains a core of numerical algorithms for time-series analysis both in
  the time and spectral domains. 

- test-driven: all new features proposed for inclusion in pyarbus must come with
  tests that verify their functional correctness.

https://github.com/ivanov/pyarbus


# "Live" poster

Here are the notebooks to go along with Poster #19. I will be live-coding in
these during the poster session.

["Live"
poster](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/urls/raw.github.com/ivanov/pyarbus/master/docs/examples/simple%2520example.ipynb)




